---
layout: post 
title: Why so serious?
permalink: ugly
--- 

<p>In 2019 I started writing webpages directly into html by hand.  It's deeply satisfying. There's nothing but the words.  I want you to come here for the words. </p>
<p>Maciej Cegłowski <a href="https://idlewords.com/talks/website_obesity.htm">says it better</a>: webpages are massive for no reason. Wordpress somehow makes the very minimalist homepage on joereddington.com 0.4mb!</p>
<p>I'm stripping back as much as I can. I want to  stop feeling frustrated that simple websites are massive and full of fluff. I'm frustrated that I have to add a caching plugin to wordpress to make a unnecessarily dynamic site static so that it can cope with minor traffic spikes.</p>
<p>I'm frustrated that I feel like I have to compete in a contest of bells and whistles rather than words and meaning. I have wasted hours getting not-that-fancy tools and tricks to make sites look good.</p>
<p>So here's what I want: </p>
<ul>
	<li>Nothing unecessary to the reader; no ads, no tracking; no stock photography. </li>
	<li>The fastest possible page load: small html files, a single css file, and small versions of images that are linked elsewhere.</li>
	<li>The absolute minimum formating: your should be able to read any pages on this domain as easily from 'view source' almost as easily as the default. </li>
	<li>No self promotion. No mailing lists or suggested posts. No scheduling posts.  </li>
</ul>

<p> I'm not planning on migrating old posts, and when I've got enough new ones I'll organise them and make the transition relatively seamless.</p> 

