---
layout: post
title: "30,000 pages in 2025"
date: "Fri Dec 26 19:57:55 +0000 2025"
---

In 2023 I set a goal to [read 10,000 pages in the year](https://joereddington.com/2023/12/19/10-000-pages.html). Last year I set myself a goal to [read 20,000 pages in 2024](https://joereddington.com/2024/12/26/20-000-pages-in-2024.html).

This year I went for 30,000 pages. (This wasn't the intended goal, but there you are.)

Of course, the point isn't pages. The point is:

* To spend my time reading rather than scrolling
* To try new books
* To learn interesting things, or be moved by emotional stories

Really, I want to measure "time spent reading" (or indeed, "time spent prioritising reading"), and pages is a reasonably good proxy for that. There are more reasons in the previous posts.

In 2025 I completed 73 books out of 116 I tried. They were about evenly split between fiction and non-fiction. About five made me cry. There were about six graphic novels, none of which I felt I enjoyed. In general I was more likely to complete novels (75%) than non-fiction (50%); I expect that's very normal.

I experimented with an audiobook this year and couldn't get on with the format.

Looking down the list, there is lots of really fun stuff at the start of the year: *The Children of Hurin*, *Black Sun*, *Nettle & Bone*, *The Galaxy and the Ground Within*, and *Lessons in Chemistry* stand out in fiction, along with *Uncorked*, *Rebel Sounds*, *Spare*, and *When Breath Becomes Air* in non-fiction — and that was JUST  in January.

By the summer, when work and other responsibilities were getting on top of me, I found myself reading to "go away", which meant that I was reading Warhammer 40K. And when I did try books that I knew were great and thoughtful and fun (*Your Utopia*, *Someone You Can Build a Nest in*), I wasn't getting more than 25% of the way through them.

Towards the end of the year I was taking more pleasure in reading: *A Life in Footnotes* prompted me to read all the early Pratchett I'd never got around to, William Gibson's recent work was really good, and I read my first Margaret Atwood. I finished the year with *Emma*, which felt like I had come back to reading.

You can see the list of books [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rW_uqs8SWVOtPf7lTe_n-hII1kvKwfCfIloa_qZENvw/edit?usp=sharing). I've included the type of book, how far through I got, and whether I'd read it before.

My favourite book of the year was probably *Nettle & Bone*.

Now, what shall I do in 2026?

* I want to return to getting recommendations from [The Science Fiction Awards Database](https://www.sfadb.com/) — that has been a consistently good source of books I've loved.
* I want to recognise when I've fallen out of love with reading. I certainly think I'd be better rereading books I've loved before rather than giving up on books that are probably really good.
* I'd like to work through more of the classics. *Emma* was great, and it would be nice to do the rest of the Austen novels.
* I need to either read my TBR pile or throw it out. Certainly anything that is there now should either be read or thrown out by 2027.
* I need a better way to count graphic novels. Part of me wants NOT to count them at all because they often make me sad, but I should at least try to read the acclaimed ones (that said, most of the "acclaimed" ones I've read so far have left me wondering what all the fuss is about). I am going to look into [the Eisner Award winners](https://www.comic-con.org/awards/eisner-awards/) on that basis.

One of the things that has vastly increased my reading this year is Libby, which I highly recommend to everyone.

